Fears of a Ghost, and the Fatal Catastrophe

The neighbourhood of Hammersmith has for some time been alarmed by a ridiculous rumour of a ghost, which is said to have paid its nocturnal visits to the fields adjacent to Black-Lion lane. An attempt to investigate the cause of this visitation was on Tuesday night last productive of a most melancholy accident. Francis Smith, an officer of excise, having lain in wait for that purpose, armed with a loaded gun, the contens of which he seems to have discharged at Thomas Millwood, a young man of 22 years of age, who was then passing, and whom Smith seems to have taken for the Ghost. The unfortunate young man was killed on the spot. Yesterday forenoon a Coroner’s Inquest sat on the body, at the Black Lion, and the following is the substance of the evidence adduced. The sister of the deceased, a fine young woman, said that her brother was about 22 years of age, and was a bricklayer by profession. On the evening of Tuesday last he was in the house of his father in Black-Lion-lane, with whom the witness resides. He left the house between 10 and 11 o’clock, and the witness being almost immediately struck with a presentiment that some accident would befall him, she accordingly went to the door, and stood, on some bricks, in order to look out for him. She then heard a voice say, Damn you, who are you? Stand, else I’ll shoot you. And the report of a gun immediately succeeded. Her brother was dressed in a white flannel jacket and trowsers. He was perfectly sober. The neighbourhood had for about two months been disturbed with the report of a Ghost, but she did not believe, nor had ever heard, that her brother had assumed such an appearance.

Mr. John Lock, wine merchant, in Black-Lion-lane, Hammersmith, said, that as he was returning home from the Plough and Harrow on the evening of Tuesday last, about half past ten o’clock, in company with Mr. Stow, he was accosted by Francis Smith, one of his Majesty’s officers of excise, who asked to speak with him. Upon going aside, Smith informed him that he had shot a man, who he believed to be the ghost. The witness informed Mr. Stow of the circumstance, and they accompanied Smith to the place. They found the deceased lying in a cross lane leading from Beaver-lane to Black-Lion-lane, upon his buck, apparently dead. The wound was under his left under jaw, and the skin of his face was exceedingly black. Smith did not appear sensible that he had done any thing wrong, till the witness warned him of the consequences of such a step. He then seemed much affected, and said that he had spoken twice but had received no answer, and that the night was very dark.

William Girdler, a watchman, said, that he had a slight acquaintance of the deceased. That the neighbourhood had been much alarmed for two months past with the rumour of a ghost walking through Black Lion-lane. That he went his rounds as usual on Tuesday evening last. That he had appointed to meet with Francis Smith, in order to go in search of the ghost. They had exchanged a watchword which they were to use—Friend, who comes there? To which the other was to answer—Advance Friend. When the witness came near Mr. Stow’s house he heard the report of a gun, and a few minutes afterwards, as he was going to the White Hart public-house, he met a young woman who told him that he was wanted. Having gone on a little way, he met Smith, and asked him what intelligence? Smith answered, very bad. They then met Mr. Stow, and went to the place where the deceased lay. Smith said that he would deliver himself up; that he had spoken to the deceased twice before he fired, but he would give him no answer. On the Thursday preceding, the witness, while going his rounds about ten o’clock at night, saw a tall figure dressed in a sheet or table cloth. When the witness spoke to him he lifted up his hands, and the witness saw under the sheet the appearance of a dark coat and metal buttons. The Coroner summed up the evidence with great ability and humanity, when the Jury, after some deliberation, returned a verdict of Wilful Murder.

"FEARS OF A GHOST, AND THE FATAL CATASTROPHE." (The) Morning Chronicle [1801], 6 Jan. 1804. British Library Newspapers, https://bit.ly/2T3nTtV. Accessed 4 Jan. 2020. (730 words)
