The Ghost of Hammersmith

This attack upon the credulity of the inhabitants of Hammersmith and Turnham Green, has for upwards of two months excited so much alarm, that every superstitious person in that neighbourhood has been filled with the most fearful apprehensions. So terror-struck are the minds of the women and children that not one will venture over the threshold after five o’clock in the evening; and indeed, if we may credit public report, this Ghost is a most mischievous spirit. Among his pranks, breaking windows, and even maiming several of the inhabitants, are mentioned. The following facts will best exemplify how far he is a welcome guest. On the 15th of December last, about ten in the evening, some servants belonging to a brew-house in the neighbourhood were returning with a friend from the outskirts into the town, when they were met by the Ghost, dressed in what they describe to resemble the hide of a calf, with a pair of enormously large horns and cloven feet. The men not altogether liking the appearance of the intruder turned about and ran off, but the Ghost was too nimble for the drayman whom he overtook, seized him by the throat, and nearly choaked him. The fright, together with the ill usage, threw the poor fellow into a fever from which he is but very lately recovered. About a week since the driver of one of the stages was proceeding down a lane near the Margrave of Anspach’s, when he was alarmed by hearing an uncommon rustling noise. By a faint light from the moon he saw what he describes to be a strange creature, dressed in white, gliding over an adjoining meadow. The phantom approached very near him, when he saw bladders affixed to his feet, shoulders, arms, body, and head; and the noise they made resembled the rattling of pease. The coachman was too much frightened to investigate the business any further; he got off his box and ran back to the town, where proceeded with him to the spot where the coach and horses were left, found the traces cut, and the horses grazing in an adjoining field. This Ghost has hitherto appeared every evening in the church yard, about half a mile from the town, adjoining to which is a public road. He was seen on Monday evening last pursuing a young woman, who shrieked dreadfully. Although there were four male passengers in the stage coach, which passed at the time, not one durst venture to the rescue of the distressed female. We have a very melancholy circumstance to add, the wife a labourer in the town, far advanced in a state of pregnancy, saw this Ghost, and her fright was so great, that her life is despaired of.

On this occasion we feel additional concern from the life of an unoffending individual being taken away who was quite unconnected with the affair. We hope a discovery of the ghostly offender will soon take place, the most active search being now making for him by Mr. Hatchett and Mr. Hill, both Magistrates for the county.

CORONER’S INQUEST.

Yesterday, at eleven o’clock, an Inquisition was taken before George Hodgson, Esq. the Coroner for the county, at the Black Lion Public house, Hammersmith, on the body of Thomas Millwood, deceased, who was shot on Tuesday evening in a lane leading from Black Lion-lane, by person who was in quest of the pretended Ghost above mentioned.

Three witnesses were examined; the first of horn was Mr. John Lock, who stated, that he as returning from the Plough and Harrow to his own house, which is situate the corner of Black Lion-lane, in company with a Mr. Stow. They had got as far as the end of Lime Kiln-lane, and were crossing the road, when Smith an officer of Excise, in company with William Girdler, the private watchman, appointed to guard the neighbourhood, accosted them. Smith informed him that he had shot a man, and he believed that it was the person who had for some time past gone about assuming the character of the Ghost. They all went to the spot, where Smith said, the unfortunate person was lying, which was in a lane leading cross from Beaver-lane to Black Lion lane. Upon examining the body they discovered a gun-shot wound on the left side of the face just under the jaw, the skin of the face was completely black from the effect of the powder. The body was removed at the request of Mr. Lock to the Black Lion public house. Mr. Lock had some conversation with Smith, who did not appear perfectly aware of his situation until he represented it to him, upon which he seemed very much affected, and said, that he had spoken to the deceased twice, but could not get any answer. Mr. Lock, in his evidence stated, that the town and neighbourhood of Hammersmith had been annoyed for some months past, by the appearance, at a certain hour of the night, of some person assuming the complexion of a Ghost. The whole of Tuesday, he said, was very dark.—He had never seen the deceased before that night.

Ann Millwood gave similar evidence as to the annoyance in the neighbourhood for upwards of two months by the pretended Ghost. This young woman, who is sister to the deceased, stated, that he resided in a house occupied by her father, in the lane alluded to; that on Tuesday night he left the house about eleven o’clock to go into the town: she felt herself alarmed lest something might happen to him, and indeed was so much alarmed that she got immediately upon some bricks to look after him, when almost instantly she heard somebody call out damn you, what are you, or who are you, tell me, or I’ll shoot you. Immediately she heard the report of a gun, and went out of the house, and within the distance of 30 yards discovered her brother lying on his back dead. He was dressed in a white flannel jacket, with trowsers of the same, was by trade a bricklayer, and was 22 years of age. On being asked as to the probability of her brother’s assuming the appearance of a Ghost, she replied, she had never heard or believed that he did assume such an appearance.

William Girdler, the private watchman employed by the inhabitants to watch near the spot where the unfortunate affair happened, gave in evidence that the neighbourhood was much alarmed, for two months past, by this pretended supernatural agent; that in consequence he made in appointment with Francis Smith, the person alluded to, by which it was agreed that cacti of them should watch in separate directions, on Tuesday night, for its approach.— Accordingly, about half past ten o’clock, they met at the top of Beaver-lane, while the witness was going his rounds, and they agreed upon a private signal, in case they met afterwards, that either one was to say, Friend! who comes there? The reply to be, Advance friend. This being settled, they parted, and the witness pursued his course; when he got near the house of Mr. Stow which was situated in Black Lion-lane, he heard the report of a gun. Having finished his rounds he was proceeding, in the space of ten minutes after, to the White Hart public house, when he was called to by a young woman, who informed him that he was wanted. Shortly after Smith came up to him, and desired him to come along. The witness, wished to know whether he had seen any thing, or what was the matter; to which Smith replied, something very bad was the matter. The evidence here was exactly in point with the statement of the two former witnesses. Smith was very much affected, and expressed his wish to deliver himself into the hands of justice. In reply to some questions which were put to him by Mr. Lock, he said that he had called out to the deceased before he fired to know who he was, but not receiving an answer, he fired. The witness said, that on the Thursday night before the accident, he was going his rounds as usual about ten o’clock, when he saw a tall whitish figure, which on approaching nearer he found had a sheet over his head. Upon his approach, the figure threw up his hands and turned back the sheet, and he clearly perceived the person had on a dark coat with metal buttons.

This was the whole of the evidence as to the unfortunate transaction. After it had been gone through, which was not till past three o’clock, the Coroner, Mr. Hodgson, with great perspicuity and judgment, summed up and directed the Jury’s particular attention to the principal points.

The Jury consulted a few minutes, and delivered in a verdict of Wilful Murder against Francis Smith: who was committed by the Coroner to Newgate, to take his trial at the next sessions.

"THE GHOST OF HAMMERSMITH." (The) Morning Post, 6 Jan. 1804. British Library Newspapers, http://tinyurl.galegroup.com/tinyurl/85e2v2. Accessed 20 Oct. 2018. (1499 words)